# Exercise: Adding a `createReliefEffort()` function to the DAL


## Instructions

This exercise is very similar to the previous exercise.  In this exercise, you will create a function named `createReliefEffort()` within the **/DAL/noSQL.js** javascript file.  The function is responsible for adding a new relief document into the **relief-student** database on your local machine. The function will take a data argument and a callback function.

```
function createReliefEffort(data, callback) {...your code here...}
```

The `data` argument is used to pass a relief effort in the form of a JSON document:

```
{
    "_id": "relief_St_Phillips_Haiti_2015",
    "type": "relief",
    "phase": "completed",
    "name": "Haiti 2015",
    "organizationID": "St. Phillips",
    "desc": "Build school desks and blackboards at the St. Esprit (Holy Spirit) church and school in the remote village of Gros Mangle in the island of La Gonave, Haiti. Home base is located in the main town of Anse - à - Galets at the St.François d’ Assise church and school.",
    "start": "2015-09-25",
    "end": "2015-10-01",
    "team": [{
        "name": "Steve Ananias",
        "role": "Team Leader",
        "personID": "person_stevean@duke.edu"
    }, {
        "name": "Libby Satterfield",
        "role": "Team member",
        "personID": "person_lsat1972@gmail.com"
    }, {
        "name": "Judy Jones",
        "role": "Team member",
        "personID": "person_judy5555@aol.com"
    }]
};
```

Passing in a callback function provides the `createReliefEffort()` function a mechanism to 'call you back' after the database has added the relief effort into the database (or when an error occurs).

- Open the **/DAL/noSQL.js** javascript file.
- Within the file, add the beginnings of the function to the file.
- Add the function as a new property to the `dal` object.  Notice that `dal` is exported and thereby provides an interface to any that requires this module.

Before your function adds the data into the **relief-student** database, you must validate the incoming document for bad or missing data. If any validations fail, your function should return a `new Error` via the callback.

Example:

```
if (data.hasOwnProperty('name') !== true) {
     return callback(new Error('Missing name property within the data'));
}
```
- Within your `createReliefEffort()` function, validate the following attributes:
   - `_id` attribute is not permitted.
   - `_rev` attribute is not permitted.
   - `phase`, `name`, `organizationID` are required.

- Within your `createReliefEffort()` function, provide the following attribute values:
   - `_id` attribute value should default with a prefix of `"relief"` and the `organizationID` address and the organization's `name`.
   - `active` attribute value should default to `true`.
   - `type` attribute value should default to `"relief"`.

After adding the document into the database, your code should call the callback and return either the error or the response from the database.

Now it's time to try out your new function by attempting to add relief efforts to the database.  The data is located within the **relief-student** project's **addReliefEffort.js** file. A separate variable has been provided for each relief effort.  Each variable begins with "createReliefEffort", for example: `createReliefEffortDataKatrina`.  

- Within **addReliefEffort.js**, call your new `createReliefEffort()` function, passing the data for each "createReliefEffort" variable.  
- Save **addReliefEffort.js**.
- Run the program to add the relief effort into the database.  Issuing the following command within Terminal/Command Prompt.

   ```
   $ cd relief-student
   $ NODE_ENV=production node addReliefEffort.js
   ```
- Add the remaining relief efforts by repeating calls to `createReliefEffort()` using a different "createReliefEffort" variables for each call.  
- Test your code by running the following command.  Correct any issues.
   ```
   $ NODE_ENV=production node test createReliefEffort
   ```

[Home](/)  |  [DAL](/dbs-and-docs)  |  [Back](/DAL/1)  |  [Next](/DAL/3)   
