# Exercise: Deleting Persons and Relief Efforts

## What you will learn

- Create a helper function to remove any document from the database

## Instructions

This exercise is similar to the previous exercises, but with a useful twist.  Create a private, helper function named `deleteDoc()` within the **/DAL/noSQL.js** javascript file.  The function is responsible for deleting any type of document from the database. The function will take a data argument and a callback function.

```
function deleteDoc(data, callback) {...your code here...}
```

The `data` argument is used to pass in the document you wish to delete.   You can pass in a person or a relief effort.

- Open the **/DAL/noSQL.js** javascript file.
- Within the file, add the beginnings of the `deleteDoc()` helper function to the file.
- _Do not_ add the function as a new property to the `dal` object.  Since this is a private function, we won't export it to the outside world.

Deleting a document requires that your data contains at least an `_id` and `_rev` property.  If any validations fail, your function should return a `new Error` via the callback.

Example:

```
if (data.hasOwnProperty('_id') !== true) {
     return callback(new Error('Missing _id property from data'));
}
```
- Within your `deleteDoc()` helper function, validate the following attributes:
   - ensure `_id` attribute exists.
   - ensure `_rev` attribute exists.

- After removing the document from the database, your helper function should call the callback and return either the error or the response from the database.

- After creating the `deleteDoc()` helper function, you will need to call the function from two public functions named `deletePerson()` and `deleteReliefEffort()`.  Here is an example:

```
function deletePerson(data, callback) {
    deleteDoc(data, callback);
}
```
- Since `deletePerson()` and `deleteReliefEffort()` are public facing you will need to expose them to the outside world.

Now it's time to try out your new functions by attempting to add then remove persons and relief efforts from the database.  

- Before we can test deleting data from the database, we need a couple of records to test against. Within your **relief-student** project, open both the **addPerson.js** and **addReliefEffort.js** files.  Copy and rename two of the constants within each file.  Modify the data to make the persons and relief efforts unique.  Here's an example of a "Hurricane Katrina 2005" relief effort copied as "Hurricane Hugo 1989".

   ```
   const createReliefEffortDataHugo = {
       "phase": "completed",
       "name": "Hurricane Hugo 1989",
       "organizationID": "Hurricane Helpers",
       "desc": "Purricane Hugo was a powerful Cape Verde-type hurricane that caused widespread damage and loss of life in the Leeward Islands, Puerto Rico, and the Southeast United States in 1989",
       "start": "1989-09-10",
       "end": "1989-09-25",
       "active": true
   };
   ```

- **Add** the new persons and relief efforts to your database by calling the appropriate create functions on your DAL.
- After successfully adding the person and relief effort documents, copy the `_id` ad `_rev` values from each of the new documents using Futon.  In preparation for deleting the documents, append the `_id` ad `_rev` values to your copied "createPerson" and "createReliefEffort" data.  Here's an example:

   ```
   const createReliefEffortDataHugo = {
        "_id": "relief_Hurricane_Helpers_Hurricane_Katrina_2005",
        "_rev": "1-cbdf0247445f181a9405ccbea6013675",
        "phase": "completed",
        "name": "Hurricane Hugo 1989",
        ... omitted for brevity ...
   };
   ```

- Within **addPerson.js** and **addReliefEffort.js** files, create the calls to your new `deletePerson()` and `deleteReliefEffort()` functions using your new data.
- Save the files.
- Run each program to remove each the recently added persons and relief efforts from the database.  Issuing the following command within Terminal/Command Prompt.
- Test your code by running the following tests.  Fix any issues and rerun the tests until everything passes.  

   ```
   $ cd relief-student
   $ NODE_ENV=production node test deleteReliefEffort
   $ NODE_ENV=production node test deletePerson
   ```
