# Exercise: Updating Persons and Relief Efforts

## What you will learn

- Create a helper function to update any document in the database

## Instructions

This exercise is similar to the previous delete exercise.  Create a private, helper function named `updateDoc()` within the **/DAL/noSQL.js** javascript file.  The function is responsible for updating any type of document from the database. The function will take a data argument and a callback function.

```
function updateDoc(data, callback) {...your code here...}
```

The `data` argument is used to pass in the document you wish to update.   You can pass in a person or a relief effort.

- Open the **/DAL/noSQL.js**.
- Within the file, add the beginnings of the `updateDoc()` helper function to the file.
- _Do not_ add the function as a new property to the `dal` object.  Since this is a private function, we won't export it to the outside world.

Updating a document requires that your data contains at least an `_id` and `_rev` property.  If any validations fail, your function should return a `new Error` via the callback.

Example:

```
if (data.hasOwnProperty('_id') !== true) {
     return callback(new Error('Missing _id property from data'));
}
```

- Within your `updateDoc()` helper function, validate the following attributes:
   - ensure `_id` attribute exists.
   - ensure `_rev` attribute exists.
- After updating the document from the database, your helper function should call the callback and return either the error or the response from the database.
- Within **/DAL/noSQL.js**, call `updateDoc()` from two public functions named `updatePerson()` and `updateReliefEffort()`.  Here is an example:

```
function updateReliefEffort(data, callback) {
    updateDoc(data, callback);
}
```
- Since `updatePerson()` and `updateReliefEffort()` are public facing you will need to expose them to the outside world.
- Try out your new functions by attempting to update existing persons and relief efforts in the database.  
- Test your code by running the following tests.  Fix any issues and rerun the tests until everything passes.  

   ```
   $ cd relief-student
   $ NODE_ENV=production node test updateReliefEffort
   $ NODE_ENV=production node test updatePerson
   ```
