# Exercise: Retrieving Lists of Persons and Relief Efforts

## What you will learn

- Learn how to sort data.
- Learn how to support pagination.

## Instructions

In this exercise you will create two functions that leverage the 3 views you just created to provide sorted lists of persons and relief efforts. Your functions must support pagination.

> "...proper pagination becomes crucial if you want to offer anything manageable to your users. Nobody likes scrolling through a mile-high web page to try to find what they want." - Nolan Lawson, [Pagination strategies with PouchDB](https://pouchdb.com/2014/04/14/pagination-strategies-with-pouchdb.html)

- Review the following docs and learn more about queries and pagination.
  - [Map/reduce queries](https://pouchdb.com/guides/queries.html)
  - [Pagination strategies with PouchDB](https://pouchdb.com/2014/04/14/pagination-strategies-with-pouchdb.html)
- You'll need some data to play with.  Seed the database with additional people.  To property test pagination, be sure to add multiple people and relief efforts with similar values for their emitted `key` values. For example, add some people with the same (and similar) last names such as Tom Jones, Steve Jones, Davey Jones, Chipper Jones, Marvin Johnson, Mark Johnston, Brian Johns, etc.  

> Hint: To successfully paginate, you must be able to uniquely identify each document returned in the emitted `key` value.

- Your code should reside within your project's **/DAL/noSQL.js** javascript file.
- Create a public function named `listPersons()` which enables the ability to query and paginate though a list of persons by:
  - last name
  - email address

- Create a public function named `listReliefEfforts()` which enables the ability to query and paginate though a list of relief efforts by the relief effort name.  
- Both functions should contain the following parameters:
  - `sortBy` (Required) indicates how the list should be sorted.  
  - `startKey` (Required) supports pagination by indicating the starting point for the list of documents being returned by the query. A value of `""` indicates that you would like to return documents start at the beginning of the view results.
  - `limit` (Required and must be greater than 0 and must default to 5) supports pagination by limiting the number of documents returned.  Example:  A value of `5` returns 5 documents per request.

  Examples:

  ```
  function listPersons(sortBy, startKey, limit, callback) {  ...  }
  function listReliefEfforts(sortBy, startKey, limit, callback) {  ... }
  ```

> Hint: Both the `listPersons()` and `listReliefEfforts()` functions have the same method signature.  Both return lists of documents.

## Try it out

- Create some code to test your new functions. Perform the following queries.  Output your results via `console.log`:

0. `console.log` the first 3 person documents sorted by last name.
0. `console.log` the first 4th, 5th, and 6th person documents sorted by last name.
0. `console.log` the first 5 person documents sorted by email address.


[Home](/)  |  [Views](/views)  |  [Back](/views/2)  |  [Next](/views/4)
