# Exercise: Retrieve a relief effort from CouchDB

In this exercise you will create an API route to retrieve an individual relief effort from CouchDB via your no sql data access layer (DAL).  The route must accept the id value of a relief effort. Leverage your DAL by 'wrapping' a call to the DAL's `getReliefEffort()` function.  If either the DAL or CouchDB returns an error, use the `next` object to return an error code and error details back to the client.  Otherwise, if all goes well, simply return a `200` and the JSON data.  

- Use `require` to bring in your no sql DAL module.

  > Hint: To load a local JavaScript module into a Node.js application, you can simply use the `require()` method in conjunction with a relative or absolute file path.  For example, an absolute path of `"../"` will cause NodeJS to look for your module in the parent folder of where your API JavaScript program resides.  An absolute path of `"../folderA/myLibary.js"` will cause node to look for a library file named **myLibrary.js** within a sibling directory named **folderA**.  See [Where does node js and require look for modules](https://www.bennadel.com/blog/2169-where-does-node-js-and-require-look-for-modules.htm) for more information.

- Create a route definition named `reliefefforts`.  Determine the appropriate request method. Allow a client to pass the id of the relief effort they wish to _retrieve/read_.

  > Hint: Route parameters are named URL segments that are used to capture the values specified at their position in the URL.  See [Basic Routing](https://expressjs.com/en/starter/basic-routing.html) for assistance.

- Within the route definition, create the beginnings of a handler function that is executed when the route is matched.  Within the handler function, create some temporary code that simply returns the id of the requested relief effort.  At this point, it's probably a good idea to test your route using POSTman.  Once you have a successful test, remove the temporary code.  

- Within your handler function, make a call to the DAL's `getReliefEffort()` function passing the relief effort id and a callback function.  If either the DAL or CouchDB returns an error, use the `next` object to return an error code and error details back to the client.  Otherwise, if all goes well, simply return a `200` and the JSON data.

## Extra Credit

Think about the following:

- What type of error is thrown by the DAL if it does receive a relief effort id?  What type of error does CouchDB provide if the document can not be found in the database?  What is the shape of the error data in each of these scenarios?  Is the shape of the data the same?  As it relates to error messages returned from the API, if you were a developer using this API, what experience would be the most intuitive?  

- Make the shape of the error data consistent when returned back to the client.  In the error response, provide an accurate description of what when wrong in either the DAL or the database.  Provide helpful tips on how to resolve the error.

[Home](/)  |  [API](/API)  |  [Back](/API/2)  |  [Next](/API/4)
