# Exercise: Updating a document

CouchDB uses an optimistic concurrency model.  When it is time to update a document, you send the document revision value (`_rev`) along with the rest of your data in the update.  You are optimistic that no one else has updated your record in the meantime.  If they have, the `_rev` will be a different value and Couch will reject your update.

- A new database named `test` has been created.  Add two documents to this database with the following information:

  ```
  drivers = [{
          _id: "1",
          type: "driver",
          firstName: "Steve",
          lastName: "Jobs"
      }, {
          _id: "2",
          type: "driver",
          firstName: "Taylor",
          lastName: "Swift"
      }];
  ```
- Update Taylor Swift's record by adding the following property to the document:

  ```
  suspended: true
  ```

  > Remember, when updating you are replacing the entire document.  Be sure to provide the ori

- Once you have updated her record, retrieve her record back from the database.  The callbacks for the responses have been provided.  Similarly to previous exercises, the 3rd callback will utilize a function named `testcallback` to check your work.


<div class="tonic">
<pre>
const testcallback = require("notebook")("tripott/dbs-and-docs-test-update/1.0.5");
const PouchDB = require('pouchdb');
require('pouchdb/extras/memory');
var db = new PouchDB('test', {
    adapter: 'memory'
});


db.--- (---- , function(err, response) {
    if (err) {
        return console.log(err);
    }
    // handle result
    if (response) {
        db.--- (----, function(err, response) {
            if (err) {
                return console.log(err);
            }
            // handle result
            if (response) {
                db.---(----, testcallback(null, {
                    ok: true,
                    lastname: "Swift",
                    suspended: true
                }));
            }
        });
    }
});
</pre>

</div>


[Home](/)  |  [dbs and docs](/dbs-and-docs)  |  [Back](/dbs-and-docs/5)  |  [Next](/dbs-and-docs/7)   
